<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>Kaffeine User's Manual</title>
<author><personname>
<firstname>Burkhard</firstname>
<surname>Lück</surname>
</personname>
<email>lueck@hube-lueck.de</email></author>

<date>2018-05-01</date>
<releaseinfo>Kaffeine 2.0.15</releaseinfo>

</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>Kaffeine</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kaffeine</command></refname>
<refpurpose>A media player by KDE with digital TV support</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kaffeine</command>
<arg choice="opt"><option>-d, --debug</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--tempfile</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>-f, --fullscreen</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>-m, --minimal</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>-t, --alwaysontop</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--audiocd</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--videocd</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--dvd</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--dumpdvb</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--channel <replaceable>name</replaceable> / <replaceable>number</replaceable></option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--tv <replaceable>channel</replaceable></option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option>--lastchannel</option></arg>
<arg choice="opt"><option><replaceable>file</replaceable></option></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>


<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>Kaffeine is a media player. What makes it different from the others is
its excellent support of digital TV (DVB). Kaffeine has user-friendly interface,
so that even first time users can start immediately playing their movies:
from DVD (including DVD menus, titles, chapters, etc.), VCD, or a file.</para>

<para>Kaffeine uses libVLC as video/audio play backend.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option> <option>--debug</option></term>
<listitem><para>Enable all debug messages. Please notice that Kaffeine also
allows fine-tuning debug messages, by enabling messages per category, by using the environment
var:</para>
<para><emphasis role="bold">
QT_LOGGING_RULES=kaffeine.<emphasis>category</emphasis>.debug=true
</emphasis></para>
<para>where <emphasis>category</emphasis> can be:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>cam</option></term>
<listitem><para>for dvb CAM logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>dev</option></term>
<listitem><para>for dvb device and libdvbv5 logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>dvbsi</option></term>
<listitem><para>for dvb MPEG-TS SI parsing logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>epg</option></term>
<listitem><para>for dvb EPG logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>dvb</option></term>
<listitem><para>for other dvb logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>config</option></term>
<listitem><para>for configuration logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>mediawidget</option></term>
<listitem><para>for media widget logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>playlist</option></term>
<listitem><para>for playlist logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>sql</option></term>
<listitem><para>for SQL lite logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>vlc</option></term>
<listitem><para>for libVlc logs</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--tempfile</option></term>
<listitem><para>The files/URLs opened by the application will be deleted after use</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f</option> <option>--fullscreen</option></term>
<listitem><para>Start in full screen mode. When in full screen mode, all
menus are hidden by default. In order to unhide the menus, move the mouse
to the menu locations, e. g. to the top/bottom or left position of the
screen.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m</option> <option>--minimal</option></term>
<listitem><para>Start in minimal mode. In minimal mode, the window
decoration with the title bar is shown. All other menus are hidden by default.
In order to unhide the menus, move the mouse to the menu locations, e. g. to
the top/bottom or left position of the &kaffeine; window.</para>
<para>Starts in minimal mode</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-t</option> <option>--alwaysontop</option></term>
<listitem><para>Tells the window manager to start &kaffeine; main window
always on top of other windows. This option can be disabled later via
the window manager, usually by clicking the title bar with the right
mouse button and deselecting the always on top button box.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--audiocd</option></term>
<listitem><para>Play Audio CD</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--videocd</option></term>
<listitem><para>Play Video CD</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--dvd</option></term>
<listitem><para>Play DVD</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--dumpdvb</option></term>
<listitem><para>Dump dvb data (debug option)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--channel</option> <replaceable>name</replaceable> / <replaceable>number</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>Play TV channel</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--tv</option> <replaceable>channel</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>(deprecated option)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--lastchannel</option> </term>
<listitem><para>Play last tuned TV channel</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option><replaceable>file</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Files or URLs to play</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Files</title>
<para>
Kaffeine uses the file <filename>scanfile.dvb</filename> with a list of known channels
per locality and per Satellite (for DVB-S).</para>
<para>
When either new channels are added on some City, or when new Satellite beams are added,
which are not available in Kaffeine, either use dvbv5-scan or w_scan to generate a new file
(in the latter case, converted to the proper format using dvb-format-convert),
and submit it to <email>linux-media@vger.kernel.org</email>, with the subject
<quote>[PATCH] dtv-scan-tables: <replaceable>some description</replaceable></quote>.
The new patch will be added to <filename>scanfile.dvb</filename> and the updated
file will be available to be updated from the Internet in the Kaffeine application.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<simplelist>
<member>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/kaffeine ">help:/kaffeine</ulink>
(either enter this &URL; into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/kaffeine</parameter></userinput>).</member>
<member>kf5options(7)</member>
<member>qt5options(7)</member>
<member>dvbv5-scan(1)</member>
<member>w-scan(1)</member>
<member>There is also further information available at the
<ulink url="https://www.kde.org/applications/multimedia/kaffeine/">Kaffeine Page</ulink></member>
</simplelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para>To list the authors of Kaffeine use <userinput><command>kaffeine</command> <option>--author</option></userinput> in a terminal.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
